We welcome all of you to the December program of JW Broadcasting.
This month, we have something different to share with you.
The governing body has decided that Gilea graduations
and the spiritual portion of the annual meeting programs
will be featured as monthly JW Broadcasting programs each year.
At this time, you'll be able to watch the first part
of the graduation of the 143rd Class of Gilea.
You will enjoy listening to the five scriptural talks
that will each be introduced to you by brother heard
of the governing body.
Most languages that our monthly program is produced
and did not have the resources to also translate
and produce the Gilea graduation.
Now, by using the graduation as the monthly program,
many more of our brothers and sisters around the world
will be able to enjoy this rich spiritual banquet.
We now invite you to enjoy part one
of the graduation of the 143rd Class of Gilea.
It's graduation day for this 143rd Class of Gilea.
And it's been a long time coming with a lot of work.
Worry, sweat, nerve-wracking parts
given in front of your instructors and fellow classmates.
Wow, woo.
But none of you received a feeling great, not one.
You're going to graduate today.
This is your day.
And that's a joyful day, isn't it?
A very joyful day for you
and a joyful day for each and every one of us.
We're glad you came to Gilea's school
and it saddens us a bit to know you're leaving us.
You're not going to be here much longer.
You're fine spiritual instructors,
brothers Kothon, Lippo, Numer, Samuelson, and Stovol.
They would like to cry,
but they're good, manly men
and it's hard for good, manly men to cry in public.
Of course, there is a host of others,
too many to name, such as Sam Hurd.
Oops, it just slipped out beyond my control.
Your instructors have done a fine job of helping you
to open your eyes to see your grand instructor,
mentioned at Isaiah 30-20.
After all, he is the one who has been teaching
by giving his Holy Spirit to all these brothers
that I've mentioned.
Look at what is stated at Isaiah 66-1.
66-1, it says,
this is what Jehovah says.
The heavens are my throne and the earth is my footstool.
For the last five months,
you've been sitting at Jehovah's feet
and you have been taught by your grand instructor.
What you have learned is much more than you knew
when you first sat down five months ago.
Without a doubt,
the knowledge you have taken in
has brought you closer to Jehovah.
You have really drawn close to Jehovah
and he has drawn close to you.
However, you've only scratched the surface.
Job said,
did you hear what I said?
Of course you didn't.
Now,
let's read the scripture.
Job 26-14.
Look, these are just the fringes of his ways.
Only a faint whisper has been heard of him.
This is just about as much as we have learned
compared to what Jehovah knows.
Who knows all that Jehovah knows?
No one.
Not even Jesus.
And he knows quite a bit more than we do.
He's been around longer, hasn't he?
Much longer.
In fact, Jesus was present when the earth was created.
When was that?
Well, if you've been listening to Morning Worship,
you'll know that one of the members of the governing body
told us in Proverbs chapter 8,
he says, take a look at that,
read it in verse 9 and 30,
and he read it to us.
He said, this is what it says,
when he established the foundations of the earth,
then I was beside him as a master worker.
Do you remember that?
You don't, if you didn't hear the day's text,
or read it.
But we are convinced that you heard it,
and you read it.
Well, that's a long time, isn't it?
The earth, foundations of the earth.
How long?
Just on the very old circon rock from Australia,
some scientists say we know that the earth is at least four
and one half billion years old.
Give or take a hundred million years.
Well, no one really knows down here on earth.
We have to listen to some of these so-called wise men.
Jesus in His prehuman existence was there.
There's no doubt about that.
Question chapter 1 shows that that he was there.
He was at Jehovah's side way before
then listening and learning.
And he's at Jehovah's side today, isn't he?
You know that.
He's right there seated beside Jehovah
doing the work that Jehovah had outlined that should be done.
When measured by Jesus,
we're newborn infants.
We barely have our eyes open.
Barely.
What we see is not what we're going to see in years to come.
We're just looking.
We're just learning.
We're touching things and for the first time.
Just like in the past ten years,
how many things we've touched for the first time?
Even though we've read the Bible over and over again
and we've listened to it being read to us over and over again,
but we've just touched a few things.
Like the generation.
At 20 years ago we had a generation.
And now we know all about that generation, right?
And so many other things.
Dragon it.
Many other things.
Like the sanctification of God's name.
Vindication of His sovereignty.
Touch, touch, touch.
You Gilead students.
You've touched a few things.
Not everything.
But what you have learned
put to good use in your assignments.
Keep in mind
you don't know it all.
And here's something else you never will.
No matter how long we live,
we'll never know it all.
Jehovah will still be revealing things to us.
And they're always good things.
We benefit from what Jehovah gives us.
He knows exactly what we need
and he gives it to us.
So always keep that in mind.
We're students under Jehovah.
And that's where we'll always be.
But we're happy.
We're glad to be here.
We're glad to be here with you students.
Every one of you.
And you're good students, too.
Now it's true,
not all of you are A plus suit students.
I'm not either.
I was happy to get a good C plus and school.
Well, we're going to get started now
with the major part of our meeting.
Being happy despite challenges
is the theme of Brother Garrett Losh's talk.
Brother Losh is a member of the governing body.
He is the senior member of the governing body.
Now I mean to that,
he's been a member of the governing body
longer than the rest of us.
I'm the oldest one on the governing body.
We all face challenges of some sort.
So let's listen carefully to what he has to say.
Oh, happy day.
These are the first words of a gospel song.
And it goes on to say,
oh, happy day when Jesus washed my sins away.
And we can agree with this music lyrics
from the 18th century.
We agree that forgiveness of sins makes happy, doesn't it?
But for many others,
the happy day is the pay day.
At the end of the month.
Now what is a happy day for you students?
Graduation day.
But you are not happy because it's over,
but because you had the privilege to attend Gilead.
Many in the world believe that if they had more money,
they would be happier.
However, many who made gaining of wealth
that chief goal in life now suffered this appointment.
Some have lost their house,
being unable to play the mortgage
when they were laid off from work.
Wealth does not bring happiness.
Rather, lasting happiness comes from doing Jehovah's will.
What is happiness?
Happiness is a state of well-being,
contentment, even deep and intense joy.
But in the world, many are unhappy.
In 2015, there were more than twice as many suicides
in the United States,
namely 44,193,
and more than homicides.
There were only 17,000 of those.
Up to 120 people take their life
in the United States each day.
How sad.
Though very rare,
due to depression,
even some true Christians have taken their life.
But generally, we are happy people, aren't we?
And here are 12 reasons for our happiness.
For one, we can be happy
because we worship a happy God,
some 33, 12.
Happy is the nation whose God is Jehovah.
Secondly, because we have our sins forgiven,
as mentioned in the introduction.
Romans 4.7 says,
those whose lawless deeds have been pardoned
and whose sins have been covered.
Number three, we can be happy
because we are being loved by Jehovah and Jesus.
Four, we're happy because of being united
with our worldwide brotherhood.
Five, we can be happy
because of living in a spiritual paradise,
having peace with Jehovah, with our brothers,
and also having plenty of spiritual food.
Six, in the sermon on the Mount Jesus emphasized spirituality
when he said,
happy are those conscious of their spiritual need.
In this sermon, he mentioned nine things that make happy.
What things?
Well, you'll find out by rereading this sermon.
Number seven, we are happy
because our life has meaning,
namely, according to Ephesians 1-12,
to serve for the praise of his glory.
Number eight, in Revelation 1-3,
Jesus showed that reading God's word makes happy.
He says, happy is he who reads aloud
and those who hear the words of this prophecy.
Do you want to be happy every day?
Read the Bible every day.
In the book of Revelation,
Jesus proclaims seven happiness.
Which ones?
Find out by rereading Revelation.
Number nine, we are also happy
because we serve in the spiritual temple.
In Revelation seven, not just the United,
but also the great crowd are shown serving
not near or before, but in the temple.
David called the Levites happy.
He said in Psalm 654, happy is the one
whom you choose to bring near to recite in your court yards.
David arranged the Levites
that they could serve at the temple twice a year for one week.
However, in contrast,
all of God's people serve him in the spiritual temple
every year long, every day,
how happy we can be.
Number 10, Psalm 40 verse 4 says,
happy is the man who trusts in Jehovah.
Trust is a must to maintain happiness.
When you arrive in your assignment,
trust that Jehovah will support you.
Trust in Jehovah's strength
rather than in your Gilea training and your abilities.
If low on funds, trust in Jehovah.
He will care for you.
If you have to learn a new language, trust.
When you are being accused wrongly,
trust that matters will be clarified in time.
When you are discouraged, trust in better times.
There is light at the end of each tunnel.
Number 11, we are happy because we practice giving.
And Jesus said,
there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
Words well known, Acts chapter 2035.
And 12, we are happy because of the wonderful promise
of a heavenly paradise for some
and an earthly paradise for billions.
We are happy because this is tied to the promise of ever lasting life.
How does happiness show?
It shows by a spirit of appreciation and expressions of appreciation.
So beware of a complaining spirit.
When Jehovah liberated Israel, the people were happy.
However, within just a few weeks, they complained
and even wanted to return to slavery in Egypt.
To stay happy, have a positive outlook.
Don't complain about the thorns on rose bushes
but be glad that some thorn bushes have roses on it.
Number 2, when you go to your assignment,
radiate the happiness you feel.
Let others see it in your eyes, in your face, in your smile,
but smile not like a salesperson, but smile from the heart.
Happiness is also shown by enjoying singing.
Happy people often sing.
Do we sing from time to time, singing in the rain
or maybe in the shower or wherever?
How can we deepen our happiness?
What others do affect our happiness
and what we do affects the happiness of others?
We simply cannot escape the fact that our happiness is intertwined
with the lives of many other people,
our families, our friends and others.
Happiness is often in small things
and unhappiness the result of neglecting small things.
Happiness is not the absence of challenges
but the ability to overcome them.
Happiness does not depend on outside circumstances
but on your inner thoughts and your relationship with our happy God.
Happiness is connected with joy.
Enjoy is part of the fruit of the Spirit.
So avail yourself of the Holy Spirit
and you will be happier.
You can be happy though hungry
that was the title of a special talk.
Of course, you can be happy if you are not hungry.
Perhaps you take advantage of the happier hour
in a restaurant where prices are reduced.
You can be happy though single.
You can be happy because of being married
and sometimes despite being married.
You can be happy without children
and you can be happy despite children.
You can be happy though you are only 15 years old
and you can be happy though you are 85 years of age.
You can be happy though you are sick.
Even more happy, of course, if you are healthy.
You can be even happy though you lost loved ones in death.
You will see them again.
You can be happy though persecuted for Christ's sake.
Jesus said in Luke 6, 22, 23,
happy are you whenever men hate you.
Rejoice in that day and leap for joy.
You can be happy if you lost your job.
You can be happy if you lost your wallet.
You can be happy if you lost your heart in San Francisco
or according to one's song or somewhere else.
You cannot be happy if you lost your mind.
Or maybe you can't be even happier then
because of not being aware of all the problems around you
and affecting you.
If you are happy, you make others happy.
If you are unhappy, you make others unhappy.
If you are not happy with others,
others will not be happy with you.
Humour adds to happiness.
It makes pain and problems more bearable.
Find happiness in small things,
the sun set, the clouds in the sky,
the birds chirping,
the butterfly on the flower,
the dog chasing its tail.
Maintain happiness by meditating on the paradise to come.
Keep it in expectation.
Daniel 12, 12 says,
happy is the one who keeps in expectation.
In paradise there will be no more tears,
no emotional pain, no unhappiness.
Everyone will be happy every day all the time.
So that has maintained and deep in our happiness
despite challenges by praising our happy God Jehovah
and making others and ourselves ever more happy.
We certainly want to thank you, Brother Loesch.
You made all of us happy with that wonderful talk.
Our next speaker is Brother Gary Brole,
a helper to the service committee of the governing body
and a branch committee member.
His theme is, continue to give Jehovah reasons
not to forget.
Well, we usually don't think of Jehovah as forgetting.
After all, he's all-knowing
and surely he doesn't forget anything.
But you know when it comes to humans,
it is possible to forget.
You remember the account in Deuteronomy.
Moses, in this case,
was giving caution to the Israelites
about life once they entered in the Promised Land,
and who had Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verse 12.
He says, be careful not to forget Jehovah
who brought you out of the land of Egypt
and out of the house of slavery.
So it's possible for servants of God to forget Jehovah.
But you know that street goes both ways, so to speak.
The apostle Paul introduces the idea
that Jehovah God can forget too.
It's in Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 10.
Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 10.
Notice Jehovah's ability to forget here.
It says, for God is not unrighteous
so as to forget your work
and the love you showed for his name
by ministering and continuing to minister to the holy ones.
So he says there are two things that Jehovah God says
he will never forget.
What are they?
Well, it's work and love.
Now remember the theme of this talk that I chose.
It's not give Jehovah reasons not to forget,
because I would imply that you haven't been doing that,
and that's not the case.
But the theme is continue to give Jehovah reasons not to forget.
And so it would be good for us to look a little deeper
into these simple words of Paul,
because it's going to help us not to forget about Jehovah
and hopefully he will not forget about that.
So we're going to talk first about work
and then we'll come back and talk about love.
Now it is interesting that Paul did not say
that God would not forget your assignment.
Jehovah says, oh, you're a branch committee member.
Oh, I'll never forget that.
Or you're a special pioneer.
You're an elder.
Or you're a service desk in a service department.
I'll never forget that.
That's not what Paul said in this verse.
What did he say?
He said, it's the work that he will never forget.
Now it's true.
We need branch committee.
We need elders.
We need pioneers and so forth.
But that's not what Jehovah is not going to forget.
It's the work that we do in the various assignments
and the various ways that we serve Jehovah God,
giving him whole soul service.
I'd like to tell you about a brother
that really understands this part of Hebrews 610 well.
A few years ago, we had five members
on an assembly hall committee.
And we were directed to bring it down to three.
So we had to remove two members of every committee.
And a branch committee decided
who was going to be removed from the committee.
So the oldest brother, one of the oldest brothers serving
and age-wise, it was decided that he will come off the committee.
So we had to send someone to tell him.
We were not going to write a letter to him.
So guess what?
I was chose to go tell him.
So I was sitting at the table,
conference table with the assembly hall committee
and I was nervous and I was using the scriptures,
trying to get to their heart.
Finally, I got to the point.
I had to say, now, YouTube brothers
are being relieved of your assignment.
Immediately, the elderly brother raised his hand
and said, can I read you a scripture?
And I said, yeah, please do.
And he read Hebrews 6.10.
And he said, brothers, I'm here not for a title.
I'm here to work.
Just give me work to do.
It affects me every time I tell that story.
Because really, his comment captures what Paul is saying.
Jehovah will not forget your work.
Well, let's go back to Hebrews 6.10
because it talks about the second thing.
He says he's not going to forget the love.
Well, what kind of love is he talking about?
What would Jehovah we love you?
Jehovah looks down.
Thank you very much.
I'll never forget you love me.
Well, that's true, but that's not what Paul is saying.
Let's read it again.
Verse 10, I have to say, you won't forget the work.
He says, and the love you showed for his name
by ministering and continuing to minister to the only ones.
So there's a couple of words here that are important to understand.
It's you showed and ministering.
In other words, your love for your brother,
Jehovah says, look at that.
I'll never forget it.
You see, it's not an intellectual love.
Now, hey, you've been in class for what, five months.
I would imagine you've read every scripture.
You've heard all kind of examples about showing love.
You have every reason to show love.
And now we encourage you go out and do it.
Practice what you have learned.
Remember if it's only words, what did Paul say?
It's like a symbol, clashing symbol.
So love means action.
It doesn't just mean words.
I'd like to tell you another little story about a brother
that had somewhat of a difficulty with this.
When I was a young circuit of his year,
the district of his year, I was afraid of him.
Everybody else was scared of him, too.
And one circuit assembly, his wife wasn't there.
And so he didn't tell anybody why she wasn't there.
We'd never ask.
And so anyway, the closing talk on Sunday,
I decided without getting his permission
to let everyone know what was going on.
And I said, now, you notice that his wife isn't with him.
I just wanted you to know,
tomorrow she's going to have a major operation.
And so we should all keep them in our prayers.
Then they introduced him.
He didn't come out.
He was back behind stage.
And a long time, I didn't know what to do, frankly.
Soon, here this man comes out very, very slowly
and gets the microphone.
His voice is cracking.
He starts talking a little bit.
And he gives his whole talk in this very low tone.
At the end of the program, you know,
we always have this heartwarming song
and he had to pray.
He couldn't pray.
He started crying.
Finally, after a long time,
he said a word or two in Jesus' name, Amen.
Do you know what happened next?
The circuits surrounded him.
They were hugging him.
Everybody was crying.
He told me later.
He said, Gary, I love the brothers.
I just don't know how to show it.
Now, if you relate to that experience,
learn how to show love.
You know what, what can you do?
You know, it might be you need to change your face.
Well, not your face, but have a softer face.
Maybe you need to soften your voice.
Maybe you need to develop a more inviting personality.
Do things for people.
Take care of the old brothers and sisters
and the congregations you're going to be with.
Even if it's not natural for you
and you feel awkward about it, do it anyway.
Because in time, it will become part of you.
Because when you walk in that front door of your kingdom hall
or the front door of your branch,
the brothers should be drawn to you
not because of your assignment,
but because you have worked hard to show love.
So as you go to your assignments,
always remember Jehovah knows the work you have done
and the love you have shown
and he will never forget it.
Thank you very much, Brother Broin.
We'll keep those reasons in mind
if we don't forget.
Who am I, O Jehovah God?
Do you know who asked that question?
I don't.
So let's give our attention to Brother Patrick LaFanca,
a helper to the personnel committee of the governing body
and a member of the branch committee.
He will give us the answer.
Gilead students, have you ever asked yourself,
who am I to have been invited to Gilead school?
That's a good question, isn't it?
Because very few of God's people relatively speaking
have had that privilege.
So why you?
Was it because you were smarter or better looking
than the average servant of Jehovah?
No.
It was because of your spiritual qualities.
And foremost among those was humility.
You have been humble.
But maintaining humility is a definite spiritual challenge.
Not just for you, but for all of us really.
We've all inherited the tendency to exalt ourselves.
You think of Adam and Eve in the act of profound arrogance.
They wanted to put themselves in God's place.
They seemed to forget who they were.
Creatures made of dust.
So we all have to fight against prideful tendencies.
Humility is elusive.
As soon as we think we are humble, we've lost it.
However, Jehovah gives us help.
In the Bible, there are many examples of those
who did maintain humility.
And one of these is David.
Let's just follow David's life a bit.
Different stages of his life.
And see, did he maintain humility?
Well, was he humble as a young man?
You remember how Jehovah directed the prophet Samuel
to go to Jesse's house and annoyed one of Jesse's sons
as the future king of Israel?
Well, seven of his sons were there,
but not one of them was chosen.
And finally, Samuel said,
are these all your sons?
No, there's David out in the fields,
shepherding the sheep.
So they call David.
And Samuel anoints this young man
to be the future king of Israel.
David must have been surprised
at the singular privilege that he had.
Now, did he become high-minded?
How would he have treated his brothers, his older brothers?
Had he become prideful?
Well, he could have said to a lieab,
well, I guess you've got taken down a peg or two, didn't you?
You better start respecting me.
And Abinadab, isn't it time for you to go out now
and shepherd the sheep?
I have a more important assignment.
I have to learn to be king.
How can I get into the king's court?
No, nothing indicates David felt that way about himself.
He was content to wait on Jehovah for future privileges.
Is there a lesson here for us?
Yes, you may get future privileges,
but you may have to wait for them.
Go back to your pastures, shepherd the sheep.
So after some time, David is still in the pastures
and what happens?
An attendant of king Saul recommends a David serve in the king's court.
Listen to this recommendation in 1 Samuel 1618.
One of the attendants said,
look, I have seen how a son of Jesse, the Bethlehemite,
plays skillfully, and he is a courageous mighty warrior,
and he can speak well, and he is handsome,
and Jehovah is with him.
My, what an impressive recommendation.
So humble David goes from the sheepfold to the king's court
as a court musician.
The more privileges followed, you'll see in verse 21,
B, he became Saul's armor bearer,
and later David had many exploits in war.
He became famous, women sang about his victories.
So, fame, good looks, youth, eloquence,
musical skills, military prowess, divine favor.
David had it all, didn't he?
And any one of those things could have made him arrogant and prideful,
but it seems that they did not.
Note David's reaction when King Saul offered David his daughter in marriage
that is in 1 Samuel 1818.
At this, David said to Saul, who am I?
And who are my relatives?
How there's family in Israel.
For me to become son-in-law to the king.
Yes, being related to the king
might have given David a reason to boast,
but his words, who am I?
Resonate with us.
David felt unworthy of being related to the king.
Is there a lesson perhaps in this for us?
Well, we may work with and come into contact
with prominent brothers in God's organization.
In conversations with others, do we drop their names,
trying to make ourselves perhaps seem more important?
But now we come to another period in David's life.
He's now the king of Israel with his capital in Jerusalem,
and he's dwelling in a royal palace,
and he's feeling very embarrassed.
Because here he is in a royal palace,
and the Ark of Jehovah, who is the real king of Israel,
is in a tent.
And so he says to the prophet Nathan,
I want to build Jehovah a worthy house, a temple,
but Jehovah says, no, not you,
but one of your sons would do that.
However, then Jehovah did something
that took David completely by surprise.
God tells him, instead of you building me a house,
I am going to build a house for you,
and he makes a covenant with David so that the kingship
would remain in the family line of David forever.
Well, how did David react?
Please open to 1 Chronicles 17, 16 through 18.
At that King David came in and sat down before Jehovah
and said, who am I, O Jehovah God?
And what is my house that you have brought me this far?
As if this were not enough of God,
you also speak about the house of your servant,
down to a distant future time,
and you've looked on me as if I were a man
who should be further exalted, O Jehovah God.
What more can your servant David say to you
about the honor given me when you know your servant so well?
So this marvelous promise that Jehovah made to David
touches his heart,
and he sits before Jehovah in humility,
feeling so unworthy and insignificant.
And later, David made an enormous contribution
for the building of the temple
that by today's standards would amount to over $1,200,000,000,
but in prayer to Jehovah,
he says, as recorded in 1 Chronicles 29,14,
and yet, who am I,
for everything is from you,
and what we have given to you comes from your own hand.
What a humble spirit,
and it's true, isn't it?
Whatever we give to Jehovah,
it's something that he has already given to us.
It's no wonder that Jehovah God loved David.
He was a man really agreeable to God's own heart.
How can we cultivate and maintain such a humble heart?
It's not simply by saying,
I am determined to be humble.
No, but do as David did.
Once in a while,
sit down, take a long look at your life,
and see what blessings,
what undeserved kindnesses Jehovah has extended to you.
Ponder over his awesomeness.
And when we do so,
we will be moved to say to Jehovah,
who am I, Jehovah God,
that you've honored me,
making me one of your fellow workers,
despite my many flaws?
Who am I, Jehovah,
that you've given me health and strength
to serve in my assignment?
Who am I, old God,
to have this special privilege of service?
When I know,
there are many more more deserving than I.
Of course,
there is a wholesome pride
in having the privilege of being one of God's servants,
but it is an unhealthy pride
that makes one feel superior.
And if we're looking down on others,
we cannot be looking up at Jehovah.
And that really is the secret
of maintaining humility.
To know what we really are,
we always keep Jehovah before us as David did.
So students,
we have every confidence
that you will keep your eyes on your awesome God,
and that he will use you,
and he will bless you even more
than he has on this day of your graduation.
Well, I don't know about you,
but I was enlightened
by who am I, old Jehovah God.
That was David that said that.
Oh, yeah.
Believe it or not.
Brother James Cauthan,
one of our Theocratic School instructors
will speak on the theme,
sympathetic strings.
Imagine that you had the means
to give everyone in your life
an expensive gift.
You know what would happen?
They would be happy.
You would be happier.
Because you would experience what Jesus said
is a greater happiness of giving.
Actually, you can give others
something that is very special.
Something they really need
and it won't cost you a cent.
What is it?
It's your attention.
Romans 12 and verse 15,
you also Paul wrote this.
He said, rejoice with those who rejoice.
Weep with those who weep.
We need to learn to understand and share
another person's feelings
whether it's joy or sadness,
but why?
We need to understand it
because we're living in critical times,
hard to deal with.
And so when the Bible says
to weep with those who weep,
we can sum that up in two words,
show sympathy.
Why should we do that?
We're going back to Romans 12
and this time in verse 5,
notice what we're reminded of.
Paul wrote, so we,
although many, are one body
and union with Christ,
but individually,
we are members belonging
to one another.
Now this, of course,
was written with those
in the New Covenant in mind,
but in reality,
all of us as Jehovah's people
belong to one another.
Now you might find it interesting to know
that in the Christian Greek scriptures,
there are some 50,
one another commands.
Love one another,
encourage one another,
incite one another,
pray for one another,
and other things.
The watchtower said this.
It said, we should be sensitive
to our pains and heartaches
of our brothers and sisters.
Often we can bring much relief
to fellow believers who are
suffering emotional pain
if we take time to listen to them
with a truly sympathetic gear.
Sympathy is entering in
and sharing in the pain of others.
Now sometimes in English,
we say empathy.
It's also translated fellow feeling
or even feel pity.
It's in times of crisis,
grief, and doubt
when we need one another the most.
So how can we show
that we care the answer simple?
Listen sympathetically.
The effect can be likened
to the sympathetic strings
that are used to enhance the sound
and harmony of certain
musical instruments.
Now all of these have
strings that are not played,
but they react to the strings
that are struck
or plucked if you would.
Thus they become sympathetic.
They produce a unique harmony.
It's a oneness really.
The effect of this is
something that is very special.
But now how this actually works
can be demonstrated with use
of two tuning forks.
Notice the one reacts to being struck.
The second,
although not being struck,
reacts to the feelings of the first.
So the first fork is no longer alone.
It has become joined by a second fork
that is now also picking up the vibrations
and is said to be sympathetic.
It's a harmony really.
After the loss of loved one,
one sister said,
tears became the language of my heart.
I so appreciated it
when the friends came over
and just cried with me.
Sure.
It's a oneness, a harmony.
She felt it.
We recognize so that there is a certain caution here.
Because sharing joy is one thing,
but sympathetically listening to another's pain of heart
can be emotionally taxing and time consuming.
As our illustration demonstrates,
even after the original fork is removed,
the one sympathetic is still feeling the effects.
Isn't that right?
And that's why,
whether we like it or not,
our actions will reveal what's really in our hearts
when it comes to our brothers and sisters.
Going back to Romans again,
this time, Romans chapter 12,
and verse 10,
we're reminded of this.
It says,
in brotherly love,
have tender affection for one another.
Listening is a simple gesture of affection.
Often the problem, of course,
is that we're in such a hurry to fix things
that we feel that we can't take the time
to listen to someone else
or just sympathize with them.
Or sometimes we're so preoccupied
with our own hurts
that we're caught up in that.
But self-pity will smother sympathy for others.
And we need to be careful, frankly,
because sometimes we feel
that we just have to solve the problem right away.
So we make statements
that are not helpful to the person that is suffering.
You know,
you need to just toughen up.
Or here's one of my favorites.
Other suffered, now it's your turn.
Or comparisons.
Well, at least you can walk.
Well, we don't mean those things to be malicious.
But how do they come across?
You see, they come across as condescending.
And it's another way of saying,
I don't care.
Or I don't care enough.
Job tried 10 times
to explain to his comforters his feelings.
And finally, after the 10th time,
he said, oh, if someone would but listen to me.
His hurt, his pain was enhanced
because of his companion's failure to listen.
How sad that is.
Neither they need cared about Job,
nor did they want to understand his feelings.
They shut him down.
Could we ever do the same thing or something similar?
How sad that would be.
To share in someone's grief and pain,
you must be willing to listen.
You must be willing to take the time
and you must care more about them than you do yourself.
We need to learn to take ourself out of the equation.
Romans 1210 continues
to join honor to one another, take the lead.
We honor others by being nonjudgmental,
by taking them seriously
and by giving sincere heartfelt attention
and consideration to their words and their feelings.
We need to remember this point.
That is that our relationship with God
and our relationship with our brothers
is one and the same.
Jehovah cares deeply about how we interact with one another.
Jehovah wants his people to be known for their love
for one another, more than anything else.
So your gift of sympathetic concern
will be a powerful means of showing love
and restoring a measure of harmony
into the lives of others.
We need to learn to take the lead.
This measure of harmony into the lives of others.
It talks like that, I can see why I'm not one of the instructors.
The illustration of the two forks,
is drove the coin home, didn't it?
Well, here's another.
The glowing coal is the theme.
Brother Mark Newmere has chosen.
He's also one of the Theocratic School instructors
and helper to the teaching committee to the Governor Body.
we are burning with anticipation.
On joyous occasions as today, your love burns strong.
And rightly so, remember this day, etch indelibly in your minds how you feel right now because
this love that is burning brightly within you will be tested.
When we undergo trials, reviewing Bible accounts of faithful men and women can bolster
our own faith, but we can hear their words ringing in our minds.
But what about those who have never spoken a word recorded in the Bible?
Can their silent examples of faith help us?
Let's consider one.
Her name is Rizba.
We know very little about her.
She is first introduced to us as a concubine of King Saul.
No doubt she must have been very beautiful to catch the attention of the king.
However, her life was not an easy one.
In time, Saul, the father of her children, is killed in battle.
She now becomes the property of Saul's son, Ishbo Sheth.
He too is killed.
Unfortunately, Rizba's most painful test was yet to come.
Long after Saul's death, Jehovah tells King David that blood guilt remains on Saul's
house due to his attempt to annihilate the Ghiblianites, which violated an ancient covenant.
Thus the entire nation of Israel is guilty of shedding innocent blood.
How does David resolve this issue?
Second Samuel, chapter 21, and verse 3, shows what David did.
Second Samuel, 21, 3, David asks the Ghiblianites, what should I do for you?
Verse 6, they answer, let seven of Saul's sons be given to us, will hang their dead bodies
before Jehovah.
Verse 6 continues, David said, I will hand them over.
Who does David hand over?
He hands over in verse 8, Rizba's two sons.
The two sons of Rizba, the two people in the whole world that she loved most, what a
heartbreaking tragedy for Rizba.
But she could do nothing about it.
The decision was made.
It was out of her control.
Eventually, all seven men are hung.
Now under the Mosaic law, those executed upon a stake, they should have been taken down
before nightfall and buried.
Burial would have brought closure to this mother's cross-soul, and above all, it would conform
to Jehovah's requirements for the dignity of life.
And that proper disposal of the dead body would have been according to Jehovah's instructions.
Undoubtedly, Rizba knows this.
But it didn't happen that way.
So can you feel her anguish as night approaches and no one comes to take those bodies down?
And Rizba could have been thinking, but the Mosaic law, no one is following the law.
It's not right.
But there was a catch.
It seems that the Ghibinites were allowed to follow a different procedure in this instance
because the national sin had been committed by King Saul.
Now did Rizba know that?
We don't know.
But what we do know, one day goes by, the laws not followed.
The bodies are not taken down.
Two days go by.
Three days go by.
What does she do?
Well according to verse 10, Rizba continues day after day in the blaze of that scorching
summer sun.
In fact, verse 10 says what she did do.
It says that she didn't allow the birds of the heavens to land on those bodies by day,
nor the wild beasts of the field to come near by night.
There she was out there day after day, shewing those birds away.
Not to draw attention to herself, not to get justice for her sons, no, she understood.
She appreciated and she upheld Jehovah's view of human life.
She allowed Jehovah's values to shape her behavior even at great personal cost.
Must love this woman.
Although Rizba probably didn't understand exactly why things were happening this way,
why was it turning out in this way?
This different procedure of not burying her sons had a major impact on her personal
life.
Yet her conduct showed her love for Jehovah and the loyalty that she had for his arrangements
that this love and loyalty burned brightly within her.
Here's your big lesson.
Now at times, you might feel that your life is outside of your control.
You may go through a trial that allows Jehovah's standards and decisions to shape you,
perhaps at great personal cost.
For example, you're familiar with theocratic procedure, you're familiar with theocratic
policies, we know that.
But there might come a time when an organizational direction, an organizational procedure is
modified for reasons that you are not fully aware of, and that decision affects you personally.
What will you do?
Like Rizba, keep doing what you can under your circumstances, show those birds away, those
negative thoughts, stir up that fire, don't allow your warmth and glow for Jehovah God to
burn out.
Now days go by, according to verse 9 and verse 10, from the start of the harvest to the
rain.
Now this implies this may have been five to six months that she kept vigil over her son's
bodies.
What could she have been thinking about during this time that may have been close to a half
a year?
What would she have been thinking about?
How could David be so uncareing as not to command to give my boys a proper burial?
And Jehovah, after all that I've been through, where are you, Jehovah?
Now these might have been natural thoughts, true, yet if she did have them, she did
not allow these thoughts to put out the fire of her love for God or to make her bitter.
Perhaps others even tried to discourage her saying, go home, give up.
But she didn't.
Nor did she start a campaign by gathering others to her side.
There's no record of her bad mouthing, David criticizing his decision as unfair.
Nor did she presume to take the bodies down herself.
Well, if nobody's going to do it, I'll do it.
No.
In spite of all of these difficulties, imagine that Rizba was suffering.
She still had embers of love for Jehovah God glowing brightly.
That moved her to stay loyal, remain in her place, and wait on David to make the decision.
Did her faithful endurance really matter?
Did anyone notice her plight?
Verse 11.
It was told what Saul's concubine, Rizba, had done.
So imagine, someone goes to David, David, there's this Rizba, she's up there near these
bodies, she's chewing these birds away.
So what did David do?
Did he now finally give Rizba's sons a decent burial?
Actually, he did more.
His 12 through 14 show how David had the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan brought
all the way from J. Besh-Gilid, which might have taken a journey of about 100 miles and
buried those bones with the bones of Rizba's sons and Saul's family plot in Benjamite territory.
So in the end, Rizba got more than she expected.
She saw the bones of her sons and their father buried together.
Rizba didn't see that coming, but it was worth the wait.
So what's the big lesson we want you to remember here?
Rizba's love and loyalty and endurance provides an example worth imitating.
When you go through a trial, remember that others are observing your conduct.
They're watching.
And out of frustration, you might feel, well, why haven't the elders done anything?
Why aren't the overseers taking care of this situation?
Jehovah, why don't you do something?
And Jehovah is saying, I am doing something.
I'm using your silent example to show others that when you endure a situation, I will reward
them.
I will reward them more than they ever anticipated.
And it will be worth the wait because I, Jehovah, I love being a rewarder.
What a noble and honorable way to be used by Jehovah God.
Now Rizba was not a victim of her circumstances.
Rather, she became a victor over her adversities.
The intense heat of her trials did not break her as a person, nor crush her desire to
please Jehovah God.
So little is known about her, and yet we learn so much from her.
She never had one spoken word recorded in the Bible, yet Jehovah must have been very
impressed with this remarkable woman, her name, an example, earned a place in his sacred
book and is worthy of our examination.
She teaches you, she teaches you how to take life's indignities with dignity.
So what helped her endure successfully?
Perhaps a clue is in her name.
It literally means glowing coal.
Now we don't know why she was given that name, true, but like a piece of coal glowing
warm and bright, Rizba kept her thoughts focused on love for her son's loyalty to Jehovah,
loyalty to his arrangements, confident that relief would eventually come.
She was industrious.
She actively guarded her son's bodies from being eaten by animals.
She didn't allow negative feelings to shut her down and extinguish her love.
Rather, in the face of what she might have felt to be an injustice, she did what she
could.
So what do we want you to remember?
What do we want you to go away with to your assignments thinking about?
In the face of a perceived injustice, keep working.
Keep carrying out your assigned work assignments.
Keep doing what you can.
Shoe away those birds.
Look up the fire of your love for Jehovah God and the brothers.
And wait on Jehovah to resolve any pending issues, confident that relief will come now
or in the new world.
It will be worth that wait.
And yet above all, above all, be a Rizba.
Under all circumstances keep your love for God burning brightly like a glowing coal.
Those talks were inspiring to the students of the 143rd class.
And I'm sure that you feel much the same way after viewing them.
But you probably are wondering, what about the rest of the program?
Wonder no longer.
Part 2 and Part 3 will be posted on the video on demand section of JW Broadcasting later
this month.
In fact, Part 2 is a video entitled The Inside Story.
It is scheduled to be posted next Monday, December 11.
You will enjoy hearing experiences from some of the graduates of the class.
Until the next monthly program, this is JW Broadcasting coming to you from the World
Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.